content/editing/rich_content/custom_components.md, before:

---
title: ":package: Custom Components"
order: 1
---

Custom components are extensions to Markdown. To use them, use proper
HTML tag with configuration (if applicable).

## Layout

Layout can be used to implement multi-column layout. Columns always equally
share space. Within columns you can use standard Markdown syntax or include
custom components.

**Syntax**

Simple:

```html
<Layout>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Layout>
```

Complex:

```html
<Layout>

<div>

![logo](/assets/favicon.png)

Here comes some **text**. And some [URL](https://google.com)

</div>

<div>

<Tip>Layout is nice!</Tip>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</div>
</Layout>
```

**Examples**

**Example 1 -- single paragraphs**

<Layout>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Layout>

**Example 2 -- complex paragraphs**

<Layout>

<div>

![logo](../assets/favicon.png)

Here comes some **text**. And some [URL](https://google.com)

</div>

<div>

<Tip>Layout is nice!</Tip>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</div>
</Layout>

## Accordion

Accordion component allow hiding (collapsing) a content and revealing it on click.
You can use other components inside accordion.

**Syntax**

```html
<Accordion title="Click here to open">

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Accordion>

<Accordion title=":thumbsdown: Now is closed" titleWhenOpen=":thumbsup: Now is open" open="true">

`open` define whether collapsible should be open or closed by default. Defaults to closed.

You can change title when collapsible is open by setting `titleWhenOpen` property.

</Accordion>
```

**Examples**

<Accordion title="Click here to open">

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Accordion>  

<Accordion title=":thumbsdown: Now is closed" titleWhenOpen=":thumbsup: Now is open" open="true">

`open` define whether accordion should be open or closed by default. Default to closed.

You can change title when arccordion is open by setting `titleWhenOpen` property.

</Accordion>

## Highlights

Highlights can be used to distinguish some part of text.

**Syntax**

```html
<Warning>

Some **note** text</Warning>
<Tip>

Some _tip_ text
</Tip>
<Info>Some **error** text</Info>
<Error>Some _warning/error_ text</Error>
```

**Important!** There must be newline between highlight tag
and it's content to render inline markdown properly. Without
newline content will be displayed as written, without any markdown rendering.

**Examples**

<Warning>

Some **note** text
</Warning>
<Tip>

Some _tip_ text
</Tip>
<Info>Some **info** text</Info>
<Error>Some _warning/error_ text</Error>

## Card

Card can be used to distinguish a text and make it stand out.
Other components can be used inside card.

**Syntax**

```html
<Card>Here goes some one-liner text</Card>

<Card>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Card>
```

**Example**

<Card>Here goes some one-liner text</Card>

<Card>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Card>

## Link Card

Link card can be used to distinguish a link and make it
stand out from the text. 

**Syntax**

```html
<LinkCard title="This is the best page!" url="/editing/rich_content/custom_components" />
```

**Example**

<LinkCard title="This is the best page!" url="/editing/rich_content/custom_components" />

## Image Card

Link card can be used to distinguish a link and make it
stand out from the text. 

**Syntax**

```html
<ImageCard src="https://sites.google.com/site/mojeczolo/_/rsrc/1365421980319/nyan-cat/nyan_cat_wallpaper_by_nyakiru-d3e1zfl.png"> Here goes some text</ImageCard>
```

**Example**

<ImageCard src="https://sites.google.com/site/mojeczolo/_/rsrc/1365421980319/nyan-cat/nyan_cat_wallpaper_by_nyakiru-d3e1zfl.png"> 

Here goes :rocket: some text
</ImageCard>

## Badges

**Syntax**

```html
<Badge>Default Badge</Badge>
<Badge color="#fe9612">Orange Badge</Badge>

You can also use badge <Badge color="red">Inline Badge</Badge> 
inline your text.
```

**Examples**

<Badge>Default Badge</Badge>
<Badge color="#fe9612">Orange Badge</Badge>

You can also use badge <Badge color="red">Inline Badge</Badge> 
inline your text.

## Icons

It is possible to use Icons provided by `react-feather`.
Reference and available icons can be found [here](https://bit.dev/feathericons/react-feather);

**Syntax**

`<Icon name="<name>" color="[color]"/>`
* `name` - mandatory, it is `feather` icon name
* `color` - color to be used

```html
<Icon name="Calendar"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#fe9612"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#ff0000"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="brown"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="green"/>

If can use kebab-case <Icon name="phone-call" color="#3487e1"/> 
or PascalCase (UpperCamelCase) <Icon name="PhoneCall" color="#34e187"/> for icon name.
```

**Examples**

<Icon name="Calendar"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#fe9612"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#ff0000"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="brown"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="green"/>

If can use kebab case <Icon name="phone-call" color="#3487e1"/> 
or camel case <Icon name="PhoneCall" color="#34e187"/>syntax.

## Abbreviations

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/abbreviations) to learn about 
abbreviations (jargon).

## Emoticons

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/emojis) to learn about 
emojis (emoticons).

## Diagrams

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/graphs) to learn about 
diagrams and graphs.

## Code snippets

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/snippets) to learn about 
code highlighting and code snippets.

## Embeds

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/embed) to learn about 
embedding external services into your page (like Youtube, Twitter, Instagram, Codepen etc..).

Commit message:

docs: fix image card description

content/editing/rich_content/custom_components.md, after:

---
title: ":package: Custom Components"
order: 1
---

Custom components are extensions to Markdown. To use them, use proper
HTML tag with configuration (if applicable).

## Layout

Layout can be used to implement multi-column layout. Columns always equally
share space. Within columns you can use standard Markdown syntax or include
custom components.

**Syntax**

Simple:

```html
<Layout>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Layout>
```

Complex:

```html
<Layout>

<div>

![logo](/assets/favicon.png)

Here comes some **text**. And some [URL](https://google.com)

</div>

<div>

<Tip>Layout is nice!</Tip>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</div>
</Layout>
```

**Examples**

**Example 1 -- single paragraphs**

<Layout>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Layout>

**Example 2 -- complex paragraphs**

<Layout>

<div>

![logo](../assets/favicon.png)

Here comes some **text**. And some [URL](https://google.com)

</div>

<div>

<Tip>Layout is nice!</Tip>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</div>
</Layout>

## Accordion

Accordion component allow hiding (collapsing) a content and revealing it on click.
You can use other components inside accordion.

**Syntax**

```html
<Accordion title="Click here to open">

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Accordion>

<Accordion title=":thumbsdown: Now is closed" titleWhenOpen=":thumbsup: Now is open" open="true">

`open` define whether collapsible should be open or closed by default. Defaults to closed.

You can change title when collapsible is open by setting `titleWhenOpen` property.

</Accordion>
```

**Examples**

<Accordion title="Click here to open">

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Accordion>  

<Accordion title=":thumbsdown: Now is closed" titleWhenOpen=":thumbsup: Now is open" open="true">

`open` define whether accordion should be open or closed by default. Default to closed.

You can change title when arccordion is open by setting `titleWhenOpen` property.

</Accordion>

## Highlights

Highlights can be used to distinguish some part of text.

**Syntax**

```html
<Warning>

Some **note** text</Warning>
<Tip>

Some _tip_ text
</Tip>
<Info>Some **error** text</Info>
<Error>Some _warning/error_ text</Error>
```

**Important!** There must be newline between highlight tag
and it's content to render inline markdown properly. Without
newline content will be displayed as written, without any markdown rendering.

**Examples**

<Warning>

Some **note** text
</Warning>
<Tip>

Some _tip_ text
</Tip>
<Info>Some **info** text</Info>
<Error>Some _warning/error_ text</Error>

## Card

Card can be used to distinguish a text and make it stand out.
Other components can be used inside card.

**Syntax**

```html
<Card>Here goes some one-liner text</Card>

<Card>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Card>
```

**Example**

<Card>Here goes some one-liner text</Card>

<Card>

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

*Lorem ipsum* dolor **sit amet**, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean lobortis turpis 
luctus mi imperdiet lobortis vitae at urna. Sed posuere lacinia turpis a commodo.

</Card>

## Link Card

Link card can be used to distinguish a link and make it
stand out from the text. 

**Syntax**

```html
<LinkCard title="This is the best page!" url="/editing/rich_content/custom_components" />
```

**Example**

<LinkCard title="This is the best page!" url="/editing/rich_content/custom_components" />

## Image Card

Image card can be used to distinguish an image 
and its description.

**Syntax**

```html
<ImageCard src="https://sites.google.com/site/mojeczolo/_/rsrc/1365421980319/nyan-cat/nyan_cat_wallpaper_by_nyakiru-d3e1zfl.png"> Here goes some text</ImageCard>
```

**Example**

<ImageCard src="https://sites.google.com/site/mojeczolo/_/rsrc/1365421980319/nyan-cat/nyan_cat_wallpaper_by_nyakiru-d3e1zfl.png"> 

Here goes :rocket: some text
</ImageCard>

## Badges

**Syntax**

```html
<Badge>Default Badge</Badge>
<Badge color="#fe9612">Orange Badge</Badge>

You can also use badge <Badge color="red">Inline Badge</Badge> 
inline your text.
```

**Examples**

<Badge>Default Badge</Badge>
<Badge color="#fe9612">Orange Badge</Badge>

You can also use badge <Badge color="red">Inline Badge</Badge> 
inline your text.

## Icons

It is possible to use Icons provided by `react-feather`.
Reference and available icons can be found [here](https://bit.dev/feathericons/react-feather);

**Syntax**

`<Icon name="<name>" color="[color]"/>`
* `name` - mandatory, it is `feather` icon name
* `color` - color to be used

```html
<Icon name="Calendar"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#fe9612"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#ff0000"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="brown"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="green"/>

If can use kebab-case <Icon name="phone-call" color="#3487e1"/> 
or PascalCase (UpperCamelCase) <Icon name="PhoneCall" color="#34e187"/> for icon name.
```

**Examples**

<Icon name="Calendar"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#fe9612"/>
<Icon name="Calendar" color="#ff0000"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="brown"/>
<Icon name="calendar" color="green"/>

If can use kebab case <Icon name="phone-call" color="#3487e1"/> 
or camel case <Icon name="PhoneCall" color="#34e187"/>syntax.

## Abbreviations

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/abbreviations) to learn about 
abbreviations (jargon).

## Emoticons

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/emojis) to learn about 
emojis (emoticons).

## Diagrams

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/graphs) to learn about 
diagrams and graphs.

## Code snippets

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/snippets) to learn about 
code highlighting and code snippets.

## Embeds

Follow [this guide](/editing/rich_content/embed) to learn about 
embedding external services into your page (like Youtube, Twitter, Instagram, Codepen etc..).
